git init command is used to create new project with git
git config command is used set configuration of given directory at global level and local level
suppose we want to set by default of configurationof new git repo then it will set as global
suppose we want to set particular directorywe use local config
syntax of global configuration is:- git config --global user.name or git config --global user.name "Rahul4321"(to set value at global configuration level).
syntax of local configuration is:- git config user.name or git config user.name "Rahul4321"(to set value at local configuration level)

Fetch:- this command is use to bring the changes from remote repo(MASTER) to local repo(HEAD).
Merge:- this command is used to bring the changes from localrepo to working directory.
Pull:- this command is used to bring the changes from remote repo to working directory.
git pull=git fetch+git merge.

checkout:- this command is used to discard the changes from working directory.
eg:-git checkout filename

Reset:- this command is used to unstage. and use to remove the latest commit only done at local repo.
eg:-git reset HEAD filename.
    git reset HEAD~1(This remove latest commit)
3 mode of reset:-
1.Merge:- this command is bydefault remove latest commit and keep changes in working area.
2.Soft:- this command remove latest commit and keep changes in staging area.
3.Hard:- this command remove latest commit and doesnt keep changes in staging area and working area.
git reset --hard:- this command is used to revert changes.


Revert:- this command is used to change any Pushed commit undo the changes in file and make new commit.

rm:- this command is used to delete a changes local and staging area.
eg:- git rm */filename

diff:- this command is used to track changes made in a file.

ammend:- this command is used to modify the resent commit message it combine stage changes with previous commit instead of creating new commit.

git force push:- this command is overwrites all commit history from local to remote repo.
git push:-it allow the changes to be pushes if local repo is up to date with remote repo.

HTTPS VS SSH:- 
https uses password based authentication and ssh key uses public key authentication

diff between two branch:-
eg:-git diff branch1.. branch2